# 0.1 Computing and What to Compute

[TOC]

The natural set of questions towards **Computer Science** at the first glance might be *"what is computer?"* and *"why is it a science?"*. 

The first question seems to be easy. When this first chapter is written at 2019, computers are pervasively everywhere. If someone is learning computer, he/she must have known, seen, or at least heard of computer as an object. The second question seems to be harder. Though science is also pervasively everywhere, it is more of an abstract concept but not a physical object.

Starting from the easier question and diving deeper, the "computer as an object" with colourful interfaces that plays music, runs games, displays webpages, …, does not seems to be intuitively aligned with the conceptual description — "the thing that computes". An inevitable (and puzzling) gap emerges from the concept and the real world appliance.

Let's keep this gap in mind as it is the foundation of theoretical computer science, and we will discuss it all the way through the entire journey. But at the moment, if assuming that the conceptual and the real computer must be pointing to the same thing, then *"What to compute there?"*

Imagine that you are 

**Counting** [^1] is the origin of Mathematics, dating back to pre-historical notches made in bones (notched bones found at Border Cave in South Africa, around 44,000 BCE)[^2]. The skill of counting is not only belongs to human, but animals too[^3].

_______

[^1]:There is a lot more to say on counting and on Mathematics but here I deliberately avoid presenting and/or explaining too much unless necessary. The same applies to many other concepts/domains/sub-domains presented later, until further knowledge is gained. 
[^2]: Sci-News.com (2012). Artifacts point to modern culture 44,000 years ago. Retrieved from <http://www.sci-news.com/othersciences/anthropology/article00496.html>
[^3]: Stanislas Dehaene, Varieties of numerical abilities,Cognition, Volume 44, Issues 1–2, 1992, Pages 1-42, ISSN 0010-0277, https://doi.org/10.1016/0010-0277(92)90049-N. (http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/001002779290049N)

