# 0.2 Simplification (Abstraction)

-------------

To solve our zebra hunting problem presented in [0.1](./0.1 Computing.md), I have introduced several fundamental tools in mathematicians' toolbox: type, number, adding and counting. By correctly using these tools and memorising the procedure of calculation, one can easily calculate the number of zebras to facilitate decision making. 

However, I suppose our readers will never experience lives of lions at African grassland. The goal of this series is also never a cookbook for African lions (and for civilised human beings). *Solving this problem* is almost at all time less important than *how* to solve this problem and other problems. In the previous section, we have used two higher level tools before introducing the mathematical tools — **simplification**[^1] and **precision in language**. I will further explain simplification in this chapter and language in the following section.

Recall our zebra hunting problem — you act as a lion and here comes a group of zebras. The decision of whether or not to hunt is indeed a much more complex problem than the one we solved using counting. There are more attributes than 



-------

[^1]: The more generally used terminology is **abstraction**. Here I deliberately use simplification instead of abstraction is because the term "abstraction" seems to be feared for (e.g., abstract algebra is usually more difficult than algebra). But abstraction indeed means simplification in this sense — to simplify the complexity (abstract out the complexity) and focus on the simple and understandable essence.